---
title:  "Post 1: Semester Reflection"
layout: post
---
I’ve had the opportunity this semester to take Technology and Management seminar, as a brief introduction before applying for the Hoeft Technology and Management minor. Throughout the semester, the director and professor Samantha Koon brought different business leaders from mainly Abbott, BP, Synchrony, Boeing, and Caterpillar. Even though many of the speakers were from the same company, the size of the company allowed them to grow their careers in their own specific way. A few speakers really stood out to me and one was Jessie Dengsevang from BP. He was an early talent recruiter and program lead. I loved his analogy about interviewing or even just talking during a coffee chat or career fair as a blind date. I found this very powerful because this logic makes sense. Neither the prospective employee nor the employer know anything about each other. Of course, you should do your due diligence before approaching the company representative, but after that, you need to pitch yourself and show how you can provide value (benefit) to the company and what they can provide you. Amidst all the competition, I feel you forget that this is a two-way street. You are trying to find the perfect match between the company and the candidate. 
  
Another speaker was Cynthia Pestel, Director of R&D Development at Abbott. I was fortunate enough to have dinner with her through the T&M Networking Dinner where we discussed product development. Although my interest is not in the medical space, she got me really excited about innovation. She explains the product development cycle. I understood that there was more to product development than just designing the product. Product managers are responsible for seeing the product through. 
  
Throughout this semester I’ve been learning and thinking about how technology and management work together in my life. As a technical major student, I always use technologies such as VSCode for coding but I’ve been using Notion to keep track of my deadlines and assignments. In one of my classes, I have a group project where we are designing a web application for fantasy football and basketball. This application will predict the number of receptions and predict whether the player will score a touchdown for football. For basketball, we are predicting points and rebounds. Both these models can be used for sports betting. For this project, we had to do a lot of research before we could even start coding. Some of my team members have never done web development before, so we made a step by step for course of action. Once our web application was complete, we started to work on our model. We used pro football reference and pro basketball reference datasets to get our training data. We are currently training our data with many different data points so we can get the most accurate estimate for a given player. 
  
Through this project, we combined technology and management skills to learn and execute a software project. I wanted to gain new technical skills in machine learning and data analysis. I’m also an avid watcher and player of sports such as basketball and football, so this project was very interesting to me and I was passionate about working on it throughout the semester. Meshing technology and management allowed me to create a successful project which will soon be presented. I learned organizational skills and took part in the product development cycle because I had to come up with an idea and see it through to the final product. In the course, I learned many different techniques for time management, professionalism, etc and I will continue to take it forward in my personal and professional life. 

