---
title: "Post 2: Technology Reflection"
layout: post
---

The last lecture of the semester was from a John Deere employee about AI. Even though the speaker was jumping all over the place, I understood the applications of AI in an industry like agriculture. The speaker brings up points about ChatGPT and how AI will not replace people. He gave many explicit examples of times when technology significantly advanced and humans started panicking. One such example was the computer that beat a world-class chess grandmaster. Chess is a game about strategy and even though the algorithm evaluates every possible combination before suggesting or making its move, it outsmarted a genius chess player. This is very interesting because if AI can solve such complex problems and with the concept of "learning", what will happen to labor and strategy-related jobs? The speaker told us not to worry because even though AI and machine learning are very powerful, they can only spit out information based on the dataset it were trained with. It has no property or capability of wisdom. This inability to learn or discover something new makes large language models such as ChatGPT and AI a helpful tool rather than a threat to replace us.

Throughout the semester, many different companies and their employees came to speak. These included Boeing, Abbott, Bp, John Deere, Synchrony. Boeing is a leader in aircrafts, Abbott is medical, Bp is energy, John Deere is agriculture and Synchrony is financial transactions. Even though each of these representatives came from different industries, they had very similar underlying messages. Our topic in week 8 was project management mindset and each company employee that came in had their own take on the idea of project management. I understood that these skills are transferrable to any industry. The Synchrony representative talked about strategy development and working with cross-functional teams to get an aspect of the project done. Project management is not just about managing people and making sure tasks are getting done, it also includes risk management and understanding scope. A great project manager is always very organized since they might be dealing with multiple projects. I recognized the importance of organization and the Agile method I used during my internship Summer of 2023 was very effective in my opinion. The Agile method allows for an iterative and flexible approach which means if there is any setback, you can adapt very easily. At my internship, we had weekly periods of work called sprints. At the beginning of the week, we would look at the backlog of user stories and make sure all the acceptance criteria were obeying the requests given from the business. At the end of the week, we would reflect on the week's performance and write up specific notes on what went well, what questions we have and what didn't go well. Every day, we would have a quick 15 minute standup meeting which allowed us to quickly explain what we did the day before and what we planned to accomplish that day. 

From this course, I learned new information about management in technological industries. One of my goals is to start my own company. To engage in entrepreneurship, I need to understand all aspects of business and how to be a leader. The many different company representatives taught me about professionalism and leadership. You can tell the way they carry themselves and how easily they give presentations, they know how to make an impact on the audience. Another aspect of entrepreneurship is presentation skills because you have to be able to convince your audience to buy into your product. Whether you are trying to attract clients or trying to raise money from venture capitalists, you need to create a lasting impression on these people which is something I learned from this course. 
